# Types Project (cont'd)


## Numbers:  Implicit Conversions

In Kotlin, there are no implicit widening conversions for numbers i.e. smaller types (e.g. Byte) are not subtypes of bigger ones (e.g. Int)

In the main function of the types project, try this code out now:

~~~java
    val byteNum: Byte = 10    //static type check: OK
    val intNum: Int = byteNum //syntax error
~~~


## Numbers:  Explicit Conversions

In Kotlin, you need to use *explicit* concversions to widen numbers!  Eliminitate the above syntax error by making the following code change:

~~~java
    val byteNum: Byte = 10              //static type check: OK
    val intNum: Int = byteNum.toInt()   //explicit conversion: OK
~~~

Each number type supports explicit number conversions.  Let's try another few conversions:

~~~java
    val floatNum: Float = byteNum.toFloat()
    val doubleNum: Double = intNum.toDouble()
~~~

For each of the variables above, print out the value and also the type.  Ensure that the types are what you were expecting.


## Character types

The character type in Kotlin is the *Char*.  Like numbers, you can use type inference when defining characters.  Try this code in your main function:

~~~java
    //characters in kotlin
    val aChar = 'a'			//type inference
    val bChar: Char = 'b'   //explicitly defining the type
~~~

Now try printing out the value and the type of each of these variables:

~~~java
    println("aChar: " + aChar + " - the type is: " + aChar.javaClass)
    println("bChar: " + bChar + " - the type is: " + bChar.javaClass)
~~~

When you run your main function, you should now have output similar to this at the end of the print stream:

~~~java
aChar: a - the type is: char
bChar: b - the type is: char
~~~

You are probably noticing that the print output to the console is getting larger and larger as we progress through the lab...we will show you in a few steps how to write functions in Kotlin and we will farm out some of this code into these functions.


## Boolean types

The boolean type in Kotlin is *Boolean*.  Once again, you can use type inference when declaring these.  Try this code in your main function:

~~~java
    //booleans in kotlin
    val aFlag = true
    val bFlag: Boolean = false
~~~

Now try printing out the value and the type of each of these variables:

~~~java
    println("aFlag: " + aFlag + " - the type is: " + aFlag.javaClass)
    println("bFlag: " + bFlag + " - the type is: " + bFlag.javaClass)
~~~

When you run your main function, you should now have output similar to this at the end of the print stream:

~~~java
aFlag: true - the type is: boolean
bFlag: false - the type is: boolean
~~~

Save your work and keep the project open.
